hi i'm debrah demirza at deluxe resale
clothing boutique in eugene oregon and
today I'm going to show you how to get a
perfect fit for your jeans what you do
first is start out by making sure you
wash and shrink your jeans the way you
would normally launder them and usually
if you don't do that and cotton you can
get a couple percent shrinkage usually
it happens in the waist and in the
length so what I tell people it's get a
pair of jeans that fit well in the waist
because if you start taking in the waist
there's so much bulky fabric for one
thing it's very uncomfortable on your
hips so the best thing to do is get a
nice fit on the waist and then you can
take in the sides the next thing you
want to make sure of is if it has metal
rivets by the pockets you make sure this
area fits well too
because you don't want to have to try to
sew over those metal ribbons and most
jeans will have a single seat seam so
you don't have to undo a lot of
stitching in order to do taking your
pant legs so what you'll need to do is
get a perfect fit on any of the
complicated areas and then you can
narrow the legs if you want to and what
you can do is look at the jeans by
laying them flat and seeing where the
line is if you have a pair of bells
they're going to need to be taken in on
both sides if it's just a straight leg
and you want to make it narrower then
you can go ahead and start pinning them
on yourself right side out or inside out
and when you put them on right side out
just pinch the sides where you want it
to take them in and make sure that
you've got your seam line at the fold so
what you'll do is make your pins gently
angle in from the natural line of your
sewing and then take them in I usually
pin every couple inches once I determine
how much I want to take them in
and then what you can do whether they're
inside out or right-side out is I take
you have to turn them inside out to sew
them and so if I don't know where my
line is going to be I take a piece of
chalk and you can go right over the pins
with that piece of chalk and it helps to
make a nice dark line you can use
contrasting colors so that when you
start you take the pins out and you turn
them inside out you can use those lines
by again pinching them to where that
line chalk line is and then you can
repin on the inside where that line is
and you can check it by finding out
where your chalk line is on the outside
now if you're going to put them on
inside out and then pin them along your
your seam you may need to make sure that
you have if you have one leg that's
fuller than the other and make sure that
you allow for the fullness on the
opposite side if it's inside out because
once you put them on right-side out
it'll flip to the other side and fit
differently
now when you get to the fold line and
you work all the way down or even just
partially down the leg depending if you
want it just narrow and then you want to
make them into bells you can do that
just want to make sure that if you're
coming off the edge of the pant leg that
you do a reverse stitch to lock that
stitch into place so it doesn't open up
and that's how you take in a pair of
jeans to get that perfect fit usually
you only need to take in the outside and
if there's a double stitch seam it's
usually on the inside leg because they
usually allow that you're going to take
the seam in on the outside so it's
simpler than having to undo this double
stitching and that's how you get a
perfect fit on your jeans